---
layout: post
title: "Using ShellJS to transform data stream into textfile"
published: true
---

###Accessing Data
This is one solution to writing a data stream to text file when it would otherwise only be accessible on the command line. This allows access to that data using Javascript. To that end, ShellJS allows bash commands to be written into otherwise vanillaJS. The documentation is a little thin, but a quick look at the source code often illuminates which bash commands are available for use. I have found that by using .exec\(\) I can input virtually any command I've so far needed access to.

###How to use ShellJS
In this example, assume there is access to a foreign device via wifi. Every 10 seconds new data can be accessed with a query on the command line. 

{% highlight javascript %}
var shell = require('shelljs');
setInterval(shell.exec, 10000, "YOUR_CL_QUERY >> DATA_FILE | cat");
{% endhighlight %}

setInterval\(\) automates our command to execute every 10s. The first argument is the shell command .exec\(\), the second is our interval \(10000 milliseconds\), and the third is the argument to pass to .exec\(\) \(it must be in the form of a string\). 'YOUR_CL_QUERY' should be replaced with the command necessary to trigger the hardware to emit a data response. The carats \('\>\>'\) will seek to append the new data to the filepath entered at 'DATA_FILE' which is accomplished by piping \('|'\) the data through 'cat'.

Here's an example:
{% highlight javascript %}
setInterval(shell.exec, 10000, "hardware read -network 0x2787" >> config/data.txt | cat");
{% endhighlight %}

I'm currently working on a version that would allow a live readstream in a javascript file using NodeJS, but for a quick fix to keep a project on task, this will do the trick.
